Add FE features, improvements and bug fixes to 2201.1.0 Release note (#1961)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-release: release-notes/swan-lake-2201.1.0-release-note.md

### Language Updates

#### New features

> ##### Support for the spread operator in the list constructor

Author: ```suggestion
##### Support for the `spread` operator in the `list` constructor
```

### Language Updates

#### New features

> ##### Support for the `spread` operator in the `list` constructor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Support for the spread operator in the list constructor
```

Introduced the `spread` operator support for the `list` constructor expression.

> If the `spread` operator in a `list` constructor expression is `...x`, then, `x` is expected to be a list (i.e., an array or a tuple). All the member values of the list that result from evaluating `x` are included in the list value being constructed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the spread operator in a list constructor expression is `...x`, then, `x` is expected to be a list (i.e., an array or a tuple). All the member values of the list that result from evaluating `x` are included in the list value being constructed.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function fn() {
    int[] a1 = [3, 4];

>     int[] v1 = [1, 2, ... a1];

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    int[] v1 = [1, 2, ...a1];
```

    io:println(v1); // [1, 2, 3, 4]

    int[2] a2 = [6, 7];
    int[] v2 = [1, 2, ... a1, 5, ... a2];
    io:println(v2); // [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]

    [int, string] t1 = [5, "s"];

>     any[] v3 = [ ... t1, "x"];

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    any[] v3 = [...t1, "x"];
```

    io:println(v3); // [5, "s", "x"]

    [boolean, int...] t2 = [false, 4, 7];

>     [string, int, string, boolean, int...] v4 = ["x", ... t1, ... t2];

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [string, int, string, boolean, int...] v4 = ["x", ...t1, ...t2];
```
We need to update in other places as well

Reviewer: Thanks. Added a single suggestion to fix all the formatting below.

> public function fn() {
>     int[] a1 = [3, 4];
>     int[] v1 = [1, 2, ... a1];
>     io:println(v1); // [1, 2, 3, 4]
> 
>     int[2] a2 = [6, 7];
>     int[] v2 = [1, 2, ... a1, 5, ... a2];
>     io:println(v2); // [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
> 
>     [int, string] t1 = [5, "s"];
>     any[] v3 = [ ... t1, "x"];
>     io:println(v3); // [5, "s", "x"]
> 
>     [boolean, int...] t2 = [false, 4, 7];
>     [string, int, string, boolean, int...] v4 = ["x", ... t1, ... t2];
>     io:println(v4); // ["x", 5, "s", false, 4, 7];
> 
>     var v5 = [4, ... t1, ... a2];
>     io:println(v5); // [4, 5, "s", 6, 7];
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public function fn() {
    int[] a1 = [3, 4];
    int[] v1 = [1, 2, ...a1];
    io:println(v1); // [1,2,3,4]

    int[2] a2 = [6, 7];
    int[] v2 = [1, 2, ...a1, 5, ...a2];
    io:println(v2); // [1,2,3,4,5,6,7]

    [int, string] t1 = [5, "s"];
    any[] v3 = [...t1, "x"];
    io:println(v3); // [5,"s","x"]

    [boolean, int...] t2 = [false, 4, 7];
    [string, int, string, boolean, int...] v4 = ["x", ...t1, ...t2];
    io:println(v4); // ["x",5,"s",false,4,7];

    var v5 = [4, ...t1, ...a2];
    io:println(v5); // [4,5,"s",6,7];
}
```

```

> The `spread` operator is not allowed with a varying-length list if the inherent type of the list being constructed has required members that are not guaranteed to have been provided a value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The spread operator is not allowed with a varying-length list if the inherent type of the list being constructed has required members that are not guaranteed to have been provided a value.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The spread operator is not allowed with a variable-length list if the inherent type of the list being constructed has required members that are not guaranteed to have been provided a value.
```

```ballerina

> public function fn() {
>     [int, string...] t1 = [5, "s"];
>     [int, string, string...] v1 = [ ... t1]; // results in an error since a value is not guaranteed to have been provided for the second tuple member
> 
>     [int, boolean, string, int...] t2 = [5, false, "w"];
>     [int, boolean, anydata...] v2 = [ ... t2, "x", "y"]; // works as all fixed tuple members are guaranteed to have been provided values
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public function fn() {
    [int, string...] t1 = [5, "s"];
    [int, string, string...] v1 = [...t1]; // results in an error since a value is not guaranteed to have been provided for the second tuple member

    [int, boolean, string, int...] t2 = [5, false, "w"];
    [int, boolean, anydata...] v2 = [...t2, "x", "y"]; // works as all fixed tuple members are guaranteed to have been provided values
}
```

```

##### Allow `int*float`, `float*int`,` int* decimal`, `decimal*int`, `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, and `decimal%int`.

> Multiplicative expression is now allowed with `int`, `float` and `int`, and `decimal` operands.  The resulting type of the expression will be the fractional type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Multiplicative expressions are now allowed with `int` and `float` operands and `int` and `decimal` operands. The type of the resulting expression will be the fractional type.
```

This allows the below.

> - Multiplication supports both `int*float` and `float*int` similar to `decimal*float` and `decimal*int`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Multiplication supports `int*float`, `float*int`, `int*decimal`, and `decimal*int`
```

> - For division and modulo, only the `floating-point` operand is supported as the dividend (i.e., `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, and `decimal%int` are supported

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For division and modulo, only the floating-point operand is supported as the dividend (i.e., `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, and `decimal%int` are supported)
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    int quantity = 5;
    float weight = 2.5;
    decimal unitPrice = 10.55;

    float totalWeight = weight * quantity;
    io:println(totalWeight); // 12.5
    decimal totalPrice = unitPrice * quantity;
    io:println(totalPrice); // 52.750

    float weightInGrams = 2456;
    int gramsPerKG = 1000;
    float weightInKG = weightInGrams / gramsPerKG;
    io:println(weightInKG); // 2.456

    decimal totalAmount = 1000.5;
    int numberOfPersons = 3;
    decimal remainingAmount = totalAmount % numberOfPersons;
    io:println(remainingAmount); // 1.5
}
```

##### New lang library functions

###### New `lang.array:some()` function

> The `lang.array:some()` function tests whether a function returns `true` for some member of an array. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `lang.array:some()` function tests whether a function returns `true` for some member of a list. 
```

```ballerina

> import ballerina/io;
> 
> function func1(int i) returns boolean {
>     return i > 2;
> }
> 
> public function main() {
>     io:println([1, 3].some(func1)); // true
>     io:println([1, -3].some(func1)); // false
> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import ballerina/io;

function greaterThanTwo(int i) returns boolean {
    return i > 2;
}

public function main() {
    int[] arr = [1, 3];
    io:println(arr.some(greaterThanTwo)); // true

    [string, string...] tup = ["hello", "world"];
    io:println(tup.some(x => x.length() == 0)); // false
}
```

```
###### New `lang.array:every()` function

> The `lang.array:every` function tests whether a function returns `true` for every member of an array.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `lang.array:every` function tests whether a function returns `true` for every member of a list.
```

```ballerina

> import ballerina/io;
> 
> function func1(int i) returns boolean {
>     return i > 2;
> }
> 
> public function main() {
>     io:println([5, 3].every(func1)); // true
>     io:println([1, 3].every(func1)); // false
> }
> ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
import ballerina/io;

function greaterThanTwo(int i) returns boolean {
    return i > 2;
}

public function main() {
    int[] arr = [5, 3, 45];
    io:println(arr.every(greaterThanTwo)); // true

    [string, string] tup = ["", "ballerina"];
    io:println(tup.every(x => x.length() == 0)); // false
}
```

````

###### New `lang.decimal:quantize()` function

> The `lang.decimal:quantize()` function has been introduced to control the precision of decimal values, which return a value equal to the first operand after rounding and having the exponent of the second operand.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `lang.decimal:quantize()` function has been introduced to control the precision of decimal values. This returns a value equal to the first operand after rounding, with the exponent of the second operand.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    io:println(decimal:quantize(123.123, 1.0)); // 123.1
    io:println(decimal:quantize(123.123, 1.00)); // 123.12
    io:println(decimal:quantize(123.123, 1.000)); // 123.123
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```

````

If the length of the coefficient after the quantize operation is greater than the precision, the function results in a panic.

```ballerina
public function main() {
    decimal _ = decimal:quantize(123.1233, 1E-36); // results in a panic
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: This doesn't come from the spec, right? Do we need to specifically mention this?

Author: @chiranSachintha

Author: @MaryamZi It is not specifically mentioned in Ballerina spec. But its mentioned in the IEEE spec.

Reviewer 4: This is in the IEEE spec(for `quantize` function we use spec related to that).

###### New `lang.float:toFixedString()` and `lang.float:toExpString()` functions

> Two new `lang.float:toFixedString()` and `lang.float:toExpString()` functions have been introduced to get the string representation of a `float` value in fixed-point notation and scientific notation respectively. Both the functions allow you to specify the number of digits required after the decimal point.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Two new functions, `lang.float:toFixedString()` and `lang.float:toExpString()`, have been introduced to get the string representation of a `float` value in fixed-point notation and scientific notation respectively. Both the functions allow you to specify the number of digits required after the decimal point.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    string a = float:toFixedString(5.7, 16); 
    io:println(a); // 5.7000000000000002
    string b = float:toFixedString(5.7, 2); 
    io:println(b); // 5.70
    
    float f1 = -45362.12334;
    string c = float:toExpString(f1, 16); 
    io:println(c); // -4.5362123339999998e+4
    string d = float:toExpString(f1, 2); 
    io:println(d); // -4.54e+4
}
```

###### New `lang.string:padStart()`, `lang.string:padEnd()`, and `lang.string:padZero()` functions

The `lang.string:padStart()`, `lang.string:padEnd()`, and `lang.string:padZero()` functions have been introduced to add padding in strings. 
- `lang.string:padStart()` adds padding to the start of a string. 
- `lang.string:padEnd()` adds padding to the end of a string. 
- `lang.string:padZero()` pads a string with zeros.

```ballerina
public function main() {
    io:println("abc".padStart(5, "#")); // "##abc"
    io:println("abc".padStart(5)); // "  abc"

    io:println("abc".padEnd(5, "#")); // "abc##"
    io:println("abc".padEnd(5)); // "abc  "

    io:println("123".padZero(5)); // "00123"
    io:println("123".padZero(5, "#")); // "##123"
}
```

#### Improvements

> ##### Disallow inferring array length in contexts that are not permitted

Reviewer 3: Shall we make this the last thing in the improvements section?

Inferring array length has been restricted to list constructors in variable and constant declarations. Moreover, only the first dimension can be inferred in multidimensional arrays.

```ballerina
int[*] x1 = [1, 2]; // Supported.

int[2] y = [1, 2];
int[*] x2 = y; // Not supported. Requires a list constructor to infer the array length.

int[*][2] x3 = [[1, 2], [1, 2]]; // Supported.
int[*][*] x4 = [[1, 2], [1, 2]]; // Not supported. Only the first dimension can be inferred.
```

##### Revamped `lang.float:round` function

> The function signature has been changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, by which, you can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The function signature has been changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, by which, you can specify the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    float x = 555.545;
    float y = 5.5565;
    int fractionDigits = 3;

    io:println(555.545.round(1)); // 555.5
    io:println(555.545.round(2)); // 555.54
    io:println(float:round(x)); // 556.0
    io:println(float:round(x, fractionDigits = 0)); // 556.0
    io:println(float:round(x, 1));  // 555.5
    io:println(y.round(2)); // 5.56
    io:println(y.round(fractionDigits)); // 5.556
}
```

##### Revamped `lang.decimal:round` function

> The function signature has been changed to have an extra `fractionDigits` argument  by which, you can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The function signature has been changed to have an extra `fractionDigits` argument  by which, you can specify the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    io:println(5.55.round(1)); // 5.6
    decimal x = 5.55;
    io:println(decimal:round(x)); // 6
    io:println(decimal:round(5.55, fractionDigits = 0)); // 6
    io:println(decimal:round(5.5565, fractionDigits = 3)); // 5.556
}
```

> ##### Added compile error for an unreachable panic statement

Reviewer 3: ? Says the opposite of the change, right?

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
##### Removed compile error for an unreachable panic statement
```

An unreachable panic statement no longer results in a compilation error.

```ballerina
function fn() returns string {
    int|string a = 10;

    if a is int {
        return "INT";
    } else {
        return "STRING";
    }

    panic error("Not Reached!"); // unreachable, but not an error.
}
```

> ##### Updated `error:Cloneable` to be public in error module

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Updated `lang.error:Cloneable` to be `public`
```

Reviewer 3: Do we really need this in the release note anyway?

> The `error:Clonable` cloneable definition in the error module is now public.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `Cloneable` type in the `lang.error` module is now `public`.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    error:Cloneable x = 4;
    error e1 = error("reason 1", message = "My Detail");
    map<error:Cloneable> m1 = e1.detail();

    io:println(x);  // 4
    io:println(m1); // {"message":"My Detail"}
}
```

#### Bug fixes

- Fixed an invalid sub-typing relationship between `table` and `anydata` 

```ballerina
public function main() {
    table<map<any>> tany = table [{"a": 2}];

>     anydata ad = tany; // Results in a compilation error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    anydata ad = tany; // Results in a compilation error now.
```

}
```

> - Fixed the issue of a union containing the null literal allowing `null` as a valid value.

Reviewer 3: `null` is valid.

```suggestion
- Fixed the issue of a union containing the null literal allowing `"null"` as a valid value
```

```ballerina
type Foo boolean|null;

public function main() {

>     Foo a = "null"; // compilation error
>     "string"|null b = "null"; // compilation error

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Foo a = "null"; // Results in a compilation error now.
    "string"|null b = "null"; // Results in a compilation error now.
```

}
```

- Fixed an issue that caused the value of enum members defined with quoted identifiers to include the quote

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public enum Status {
    'new,
    old
}
public function main() {
    io:println('new); // Previously printed `'new`, now prints `new`.
}
```

> - Updated to log a compilation error when there is an extra comma inside a mapping match pattern

Reviewer 3: Updated what?

```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that resulted in a compilation error not being logged for an extra comma in a mapping match pattern
```

```ballerina
type MyRecord record {
    int field1;
    int field2;
};

function fn(MyRecord r1) {
    match r1 {
        {field1: 0,} => { // A syntax error is now given for the comma.

        }
    }
}
```

> - Fixed an issue in the parser that disallowed qualified identifiers with a pre-declared prefix as a const match pattern

Reviewer 3: Not a breaking change, IMO can be skipped.

```ballerina
function fn(any x) {
    match x {

>         int:MAX_VALUE => { // Match pattern is now allowed
>         }
> 
>         [int:MAX_VALUE, int:MIN_VALUE] => { // Match pattern is now allowed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        int:MAX_VALUE => { // Match pattern is now allowed.
        }

        [int:MAX_VALUE, int:MIN_VALUE] => { // Match pattern is now allowed.
```

        }
    }
}
```

- Fixed qualified identifiers not being allowed in error match patterns 

```ballerina
function fn(error e) {
    match e {

>         error(errors:MESSAGE) => { // Match pattern is now allowed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        error(errors:MESSAGE) => { // Match pattern is now allowed.
```

For any arr = []; Earlier, the inherent type is any[] but it is now corrected to be (any|error)[]

```ballerina
public function main() {
    any x = [1, 3, 4];
    if x is (any|error)[] {
        x.push(error("error..")); // Now this is allowed, earlier it failed in runtime
    }
}
```

##### Disallow additive expression  with operands that contain a union of basic types

Fixed a spec deviation that allowed the operands of additive expression with a union of basic types. This will now result in a compilation error.

```ballerina
function fn() {
	int|float a = 4;
	int|float b = 4.5;
	// Now, this results in an error.
	int _ = a + b;
	int _ = a + a;
}
```

##### Allow additive expression with operands of a union type containing builtin subtypes of `string` and `XML`

Fixed a spec deviation that disallowed the operands of additive expression with a union type containing builtin subtypes of `string` and `XML`

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;
 
type Strings "A"|"B";
 
public function main() {
	string:Char|Strings a = "A";
	string b = "B";
	// This, which was disallowed previously results `AB` now.
	io:println(a + b);
}
```

#### Bug Fixes

> To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake 2201.1.0](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+2201.0.0%22+label%3AType%2FBug+label%3ATeam%2FCompilerFE).

Author: ```suggestion
To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake 2201.1.0](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+label%3ATeam%2FCompilerFE+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+2201.1.0%22).
```

> #### New Features

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
#### New features
```

> ##### Support for the spread operator in the list constructor

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
##### Support for the `spread` operator in the` list` constructor
```

Author: @praneesha should we use backticks for these words? these are not ballerina keywords

Reviewer 6: Better to use as it might be confusing with the verb `spread`.

Reviewer: "List constructor expression" is a well-known construct in ballerina. For me, It is weird to highlight just the `list` part of it.
Same with spread operator. 
@MaryamZi thoughts?

> Introduced the spread operator support for the list constructor expression.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Introduced the `spread` operator support for the `list` constructor expression.
```

Reviewer 6: Same as above.

> If the spread operator in a list constructor expression is `...x`, then, `x` is expected to be a list (i.e., an array or a tuple). All the member values of the list that result from evaluating `x` are included in the list value being constructed.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
If the `spread` operator in a `list` constructor expression is `...x`, then, `x` is expected to be a list (i.e., an array or a tuple). All the member values of the list that result from evaluating `x` are included in the list value being constructed.
```

Author: Spread and list are not ballerina specific keywords

Reviewer 6: Better to use backticks as it might be confusing with the verb form of it.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function fn() {
    int[] a1 = [3, 4];
    int[] v1 = [1, 2, ... a1];
    io:println(v1); // [1, 2, 3, 4]

    int[2] a2 = [6, 7];
    int[] v2 = [1, 2, ... a1, 5, ... a2];
    io:println(v2); // [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]

    [int, string] t1 = [5, "s"];
    any[] v3 = [ ... t1, "x"];
    io:println(v3); // [5, "s", "x"]

    [boolean, int...] t2 = [false, 4, 7];
    [string, int, string, boolean, int...] v4 = ["x", ... t1, ... t2];
    io:println(v4); // ["x", 5, "s", false, 4, 7];

    var v5 = [4, ... t1, ... a2];
    io:println(v5); // [4, 5, "s", 6, 7];
}
```

> The spread operator is not allowed with a varying-length list if the inherent type of the list being constructed has required members that are not guaranteed to have been provided a value.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The `spread` operator is not allowed with a varying-length list if the inherent type of the list being constructed has required members that are not guaranteed to have been provided a value.
```

Reviewer 6: Same as above.

```ballerina
public function fn() {
    [int, string...] t1 = [5, "s"];
    [int, string, string...] v1 = [ ... t1]; // results in an error since a value is not guaranteed to have been provided for the second tuple member

    [int, boolean, string, int...] t2 = [5, false, "w"];
    [int, boolean, anydata...] v2 = [ ... t2, "x", "y"]; // works as all fixed tuple members are guaranteed to have been provided values
}
```

##### Allow `int*float`, `float*int`,` int* decimal`, `decimal*int`, `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, and `decimal%int`.

Multiplicative expression is now allowed with `int`, `float` and `int`, and `decimal` operands.  The resulting type of the expression will be the fractional type.

This allows the below.

> - Multiplication supports both `int*float` and ``float*int` similar to `decimal*float` and `decimal*int`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Multiplication supports both `int*float` and `float*int` similar to `decimal*float` and `decimal*int`
```
We don't put full stops in bullet points. This is just a best practice to assure consistency.

> - For division and modulo, only the `floating-point` operand as the dividend is supported (i.e., `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, and `decimal%int` are supported.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- For division and modulo, only the `floating-point` operand is supported as the dividend (i.e., `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, and `decimal%int` are supported
```
Check why this whole sentence is formatted (turned into blue color here in the editor), and fix it.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    int quantity = 5;
    float weight = 2.5;
    decimal unitPrice = 10.55;

    float totalWeight = weight * quantity;
    io:println(totalWeight); // 12.5
    decimal totalPrice = unitPrice * quantity;
    io:println(totalPrice); // 52.750

    float weightInGrams = 2456;
    int gramsPerKG = 1000;
    float weightInKG = weightInGrams / gramsPerKG;
    io:println(weightInKG); // 2.456

    decimal totalAmount = 1000.5;
    int numberOfPersons = 3;
    decimal remainingAmount = totalAmount % numberOfPersons;
    io:println(remainingAmount); // 1.5
}
```

##### New lang library functions

###### New `lang.array:some()` function

The `lang.array:some()` function tests whether a function returns `true` for some member of an array. 

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

function func1(int i) returns boolean {
    return i > 2;
}

public function main() {
    io:println([1, 3].some(func1)); // true
    io:println([1, -3].some(func1)); // false
}
```
###### New `lang.array:every()` function

> The function `lang.array:every` function tests whether a function returns `true` for every member of an array.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The `lang.array:every` function tests whether a function returns `true` for every member of an array.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

function func1(int i) returns boolean {
    return i > 2;
}

public function main() {
    io:println([5, 3].every(func1)); // true
    io:println([1, 3].every(func1)); // false
}
```
###### New `lang.decimal:quantize()` function

> The `lang.decimal:quantize()` function has been introduced to control the precision of decimal values, which returns a value equal to the first operand after rounding and having the exponent of the second operand.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The `lang.decimal:quantize()` function has been introduced to control the precision of decimal values, which return a value equal to the first operand after rounding and having the exponent of the second operand.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    io:println(decimal:quantize(123.123, 1.0)); // 123.1
    io:println(decimal:quantize(123.123, 1.00)); // 123.12
    io:println(decimal:quantize(123.123, 1.000)); // 123.123
}
```

> If the length of the coefficient after the quantize operation would be greater than the precision, the function results in a panic.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
If the length of the coefficient after the quantize operation is greater than the precision, the function results in a panic.
```

```ballerina
public function main() {
    decimal _ = decimal:quantize(123.1233, 1E-36); // results in a panic
}
```

###### New `lang.float:toFixedString()` and `lang.float:toExpString()` functions

> Two new functions namely `lang.float:toFixedString()` and `lang.float:toExpString()` have been introduced to get the string representation of a `float` value in fixed-point notation and scientific notation respectively. Both the functions allow you to specify the number of digits required after the decimal point.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Two new `lang.float:toFixedString()` and `lang.float:toExpString()` functions have been introduced to get the string representation of a `float` value in fixed-point notation and scientific notation respectively. Both the functions allow you to specify the number of digits required after the decimal point.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    string a = float:toFixedString(5.7, 16); 
    io:println(a); // 5.7000000000000002
    string b = float:toFixedString(5.7, 2); 
    io:println(b); // 5.70
    
    float f1 = -45362.12334;
    string c = float:toExpString(f1, 16); 
    io:println(c); // -4.5362123339999998e+4
    string d = float:toExpString(f1, 2); 
    io:println(d); // -4.54e+4
}
```

###### New `lang.string:padStart()`, `lang.string:padEnd()`, and `lang.string:padZero()` functions

> The `lang.string:padStart()`, `lang.string:padEnd()`, and `lang.string:padZero()` functions have been introduced to add padding in strings. `lang.string:padStart()` adds padding to the start of a string. `lang.string:padEnd()` adds padding to the end of a string. `lang.string:padZero()` pads a string with zeros.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The `lang.string:padStart()`, `lang.string:padEnd()`, and `lang.string:padZero()` functions have been introduced to add padding in strings. `lang.string:padStart()` adds padding to the start of a string. `lang.string:padEnd()` adds padding to the end of a string. `lang.string:padZero()` pads a string with zeros.
```
Shall we make these bullet points?

```ballerina
public function main() {
    io:println("abc".padStart(5, "#")); // "##abc"
    io:println("abc".padStart(5)); // "  abc"

    io:println("abc".padEnd(5, "#")); // "abc##"
    io:println("abc".padEnd(5)); // "abc  "

    io:println("123".padZero(5)); // "00123"
    io:println("123".padZero(5, "#")); // "##123"
}
```

#### Improvements

##### Disallow inferring array length in contexts that are not permitted

Inferring array length has been restricted to list constructors in variable and constant declarations. Moreover, only the first dimension can be inferred in multidimensional arrays.

```ballerina
int[*] x1 = [1, 2]; // Supported.

int[2] y = [1, 2];
int[*] x2 = y; // Not supported. Requires a list constructor to infer the array length.

int[*][2] x3 = [[1, 2], [1, 2]]; // Supported.
int[*][*] x4 = [[1, 2], [1, 2]]; // Not supported. Only the first dimension can be inferred.
```

> ##### Revamped `lang.float:round` langlib function

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
##### Revamped `lang.float:round` langlib function
```
Is `lang lib` one word or 2 words? We have it as 2 words in the title and both need to be consistent.

Author: In title we have lang library and langlib as one word in short form.

Reviewer 6: Then, the shorten for should be `lang lib`.

> The function signature has been changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, where the user can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The function signature has been changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, by which, you can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    float x = 555.545;
    float y = 5.5565;
    int fractionDigits = 3;

    io:println(555.545.round(1)); // 555.5
    io:println(555.545.round(2)); // 555.54
    io:println(float:round(x)); // 556.0
    io:println(float:round(x, fractionDigits = 0)); // 556.0
    io:println(float:round(x, 1));  // 555.5
    io:println(y.round(2)); // 5.56
    io:println(y.round(fractionDigits)); // 5.556
}
```

> ##### Revamped `lang.decimal:round` langlib function

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
##### Revamped `lang.decimal:round` langlib function
```
Same as above for `langlib`. Also, do we need to say `langlib` function again here as the title already implies it?

> The function signature has been changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, where the user can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The function signature has been changed to have an extra `fractionDigits` argument  by which, you can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    io:println(5.55.round(1)); // 5.6
    decimal x = 5.55;
    io:println(decimal:round(x)); // 6
    io:println(decimal:round(5.55, fractionDigits = 0)); // 6
    io:println(decimal:round(5.5565, fractionDigits = 3)); // 5.556
}
```

> ##### An unreachable panic statement no longer results in a compilation error

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
##### Updated unreachable panic statement 

An unreachable panic statement no longer results in a compilation error.
```
It is not a good practice to have sentences on topics. It would be in noun or verb form. We can add the description in a sentence after the title.

Author: @praneesha This title implies that we are updating an already existing unreachable panic statement, but what we really do is, if there is such unreachable panic statement we give a compile error.

Reviewer 6: Then, shall we  say, `Added compile error for an unreachable panic statement`?

```ballerina
function fn() returns string {
    int|string a = 10;

    if a is int {
        return "INT";
    } else {
        return "STRING";
    }

    panic error("Not Reached!"); // unreachable, but not an error.
}
```

> ##### `error:Clonable` Cloneable definition in error module is now public

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
##### Updated public `error:Clonable` cloneable definition in error module

The `error:Clonable` cloneable definition in the error module is now public.
```
It is not a good practice to have sentences on topics. It would be in noun or verb form.

Author: @praneesha Can we say "Updated error:Cloneable to be public in error module" ?

Reviewer 6: +1

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    error:Cloneable x = 4;
    error e1 = error("reason 1", message = "My Detail");
    map<error:Cloneable> m1 = e1.detail();

    io:println(x);  // 4
    io:println(m1); // {"message":"My Detail"}
}
```

> #### Bug Fixes

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
#### Bug fixes
```

> - An invalid sub-typing relationship between `table` and `anydata` has been fixed.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Fixed an invalid sub-typing relationship between `table` and `anydata` 
```

```ballerina
public function main() {
    table<map<any>> tany = table [{"a": 2}];
    anydata ad = tany; // Results in a compilation error.
}
```

> - A union containing the `null` literal allowing `"null"` as a valid value has been fixed.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Fixed a union containing the `null` literal allowing `null` as a valid value 
```

Reviewer 6: Should be `"Fixed the issue of a union containing the null literal allowing `null` as a valid value.`

```ballerina
type Foo boolean|null;

public function main() {
    Foo a = "null"; // compilation error
    "string"|null b = "null"; // compilation error
}
```

> - An issue that caused the value of enum members defined with quoted identifiers to include the quote has been fixed.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue that caused the value of enum members defined with quoted identifiers to include the quote
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public enum Status {
    'new,
    old
}
public function main() {
    io:println('new); // Previously printed `'new`, now prints `new`.
}
```

> - A compilation error is now logged when there is an extra comma inside a mapping match pattern.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Updated to log a compilation error when there is an extra comma inside a mapping match pattern
```

```ballerina
type MyRecord record {
    int field1;
    int field2;
};

function fn(MyRecord r1) {
    match r1 {
        {field1: 0,} => { // A syntax error is now given for the comma.

        }
    }
}
```

> - An issue in the parser that disallowed qualified identifiers with a pre-declared prefix as a const match pattern has been fixed.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue in the parser that disallowed qualified identifiers with a pre-declared prefix as a const match pattern
```

```ballerina
function fn(any x) {
    match x {
        int:MAX_VALUE => { // Match pattern is now allowed
        }

        [int:MAX_VALUE, int:MIN_VALUE] => { // Match pattern is now allowed
        }
    }
}
```

> - Qualified identifiers not being allowed in error match patterns has been fixed.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Fixed qualified identifiers not being allowed in error match patterns 
```

```ballerina
function fn(error e) {
    match e {
        error(errors:MESSAGE) => { // Match pattern is now allowed

        }
    }
}
```

> - The inherent type of a list constructed using a list constructor with `any` as the contextually-expected type has been fixed to be `(any|error)[]` instead of `any[]`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Fixed the inherent type of a list constructed using a list constructor with `any` as the contextually-expected type to be `(any|error)[]` instead of `any[]`
```

```ballerina
public function main() {
    any x = [1, 3, 4];
    if x is (any|error)[] {
        x.push(error("invalid!")); // Now allowed, previously failed at runtime.
    }
}
```

> - A bug that allowed additive expressions with operands of types that are union types of different basic types has been fixed.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that allowed additive expressions with operands of types that are union types of different basic types 
```

```ballerina
public function main() {
    int|float a = 4;
    int|float b = 4.5;

>     int _ = a + b; // Now result in a compilation error.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    int _ = a + b; // Now, this results in a compilation error.
```

}
```

> #### Bug Fixes

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
#### Bug fixes
```

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake 2201.1.0](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+label%3ATeam%2FCompilerFE+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+2201.1.0%22).

> ### Runtime Updates

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### Runtime updates
```

#### New Features

##### The `spread` operator support for `list` constructor

> Introduced the `spread` operator support for the `list` constructor expression.

Reviewer 3: Why are we emphasizing `spread`? It's not a keyword or a name of a construct in the code.

> Introduced the `spread` operator support for the `list` constructor expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Introduced the spread operator support for the list constructor expression.
```

Reviewer 3: Emphasis needs to be fixed in line with https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-release/pull/1961#discussion_r870393444.

Reviewer 3: We don't need the "the" before spread either.

Reviewer: @gimantha we need to commit the above as well.

> If the list member with the `spread` operator is `...x`, then, the static type of `x` is expected to be a list (i.e., the static type of `x` is expected to be a subtype of `[(any|error)...]`. All the member values of the list that results from evaluating `x` are included in the list value being constructed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the spread operator in a list constructor expression is `...x`, then, `x` is expected to be a list (i.e., an array or a tuple). All the member values of the list that result from evaluating `x` are included in the list value being constructed.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function fn() {
    int[] a1 = [3, 4];
    int[] v1 = [1, 2, ... a1];
    io:println(v1); // [1, 2, 3, 4]

    int[2] a2 = [6, 7];
    int[] v2 = [1, 2, ... a1, 5, ... a2];
    io:println(v2); // [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]

    [int, string] t1 = [5, "s"];
    any[] v3 = [ ... t1, "x"];
    io:println(v3); // [5, "s", "x"]

    [boolean, int...] t2 = [false, 4, 7];
    [string, int, string, boolean, int...] v4 = ["x", ... t1, ... t2];
    io:println(v4); // ["x", 5, "s", false, 4, 7];

    var v5 = [4, ... t1, ... a2];
    io:println(v5); // [4, 5, "s", 6, 7];
}
```

> The `spread` operator with a varying-length list is not allowed if the inherent type of the list being constructed with required members that are not guaranteed to have a value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The spread operator is not allowed with a varying-length list if the inherent type of the list being constructed has required members that are not guaranteed to have been provided a value.
```

```ballerina
public function fn() {
    [int, string...] t1 = [5, "s"];
    [int, string, string...] v1 = [ ... t1]; // results in an error since a value is not guaranteed to have been provided for the second tuple member

    [int, boolean, string, int...] t2 = [5, false, "w"];
    [int, boolean, anydata...] v2 = [ ... t2, "x", "y"]; // works as all fixed tuple members are guaranteed to have been provided values
}
```

##### Allow `int*float`, `float*int`,` int* decimal`, `decimal*int`, `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, and `decimal%int`.

Multiplicative expression is now allowed with `int`, `float` and `int`, and `decimal` operands.  The resulting type of the expression will be the fractional type.

This allows the below.
Multiplication supports both `int*float` and ``float*int` similar to `decimal*float` and `decimal*int`.

> For division and modulo, only the `floating-point` operand as the dividend is supported (i.e., `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, and `decimal%int` are supported.

Author: @praneesha

> For division and modulo, only the `floating-point` operand as the dividend is supported (i.e., `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, and `decimal%int` are supported.

Author: @rdulmina

> For division and modulo, only the `floating-point` operand as the dividend is supported (i.e., `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, and `decimal%int` are supported.

Author: fixed

```ballerina
public function main() {
    io:println("abc".padStart(5, "#")); // "##abc"
    io:println("abc".padStart(5)); // "  abc"

    io:println("abc".padEnd(5, "#")); // "abc##"
    io:println("abc".padEnd(5)); // "abc  "

    io:println("123".padZero(5)); // "00123"
    io:println("123".padZero(5, "#")); // "##123"
}
```

#### Improvements

##### Disallow inferring array length in contexts that are not permitted

Inferring array length has been restricted to list constructors in variable and constant declarations. Moreover, only the first dimension can be inferred in multidimensional arrays.

```ballerina
int[*] x1 = [1, 2]; // Supported.

int[2] y = [1, 2];
int[*] x2 = y; // Not supported. Requires a list constructor to infer the array length.

int[*][2] x3 = [[1, 2], [1, 2]]; // Supported.
int[*][*] x4 = [[1, 2], [1, 2]]; // Not supported. Only the first dimension can be inferred.
```

> ##### Add annotation attachments to the BIR
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

##### Revamped `lang.float:round` langlib function

The function signature has been changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, where the user can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    float x = 555.545;
    float y = 5.5565;
    int fractionDigits = 3;

>     io:println(555.545.round(1));                     // 555.5
>     io:println(555.545.round(2));                     // 555.54
>     io:println(float:round(x));                      // 556.0
>     io:println(float:round(x, fractionDigits = 0));  // 556.0
>     io:println(float:round(x, 1));                   // 555.5
>     io:println(y.round(2));                           // 5.56
>     io:println(y.round(fractionDigits));              // 5.556

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    io:println(555.545.round(1)); // 555.5
    io:println(555.545.round(2)); // 555.54
    io:println(float:round(x)); // 556.0
    io:println(float:round(x, fractionDigits = 0)); // 556.0
    io:println(float:round(x, 1));  // 555.5
    io:println(y.round(2)); // 5.56
    io:println(y.round(fractionDigits)); // 5.556
```

}
```

##### Revamped `lang.decimal:round` langlib function

The function signature has been changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, where the user can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    io:println(5.55.round(1)); // 5.6
    decimal x = 5.55;
    io:println(decimal:round(x)); // 6
    io:println(decimal:round(5.55, fractionDigits = 0)); // 6
    io:println(decimal:round(5.5565, fractionDigits = 3)); // 5.556
}
```

##### An unreachable panic statement no longer results in a compilation error

```ballerina
function fn() returns string {
    int|string a = 10;

    if a is int {
        return "INT";
    } else {
        return "STRING";
    }

    panic error("Not Reached!"); // unreachable, but not an error.
}
```

> #### `error:Clonable` Cloneable definition in error module is now public

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
##### `error:Clonable` Cloneable definition in error module is now public
```

> ```

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```ballerina
```

int[*] x2 = y; // Not supported. Requires a list constructor to infer the array length.

int[*][2] x3 = [[1, 2], [1, 2]]; // Supported.
int[*][*] x4 = [[1, 2], [1, 2]]; // Not supported. Only the first dimension can be inferred.
```

##### Add annotation attachments to the BIR

##### Revamped `lang.float:round` langlib function

The function signature has been changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, where the user can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;
import ballerina/lang.'float as floats;

public function main() {
    float x = 555.545;
    float y = 5.5565;
    int fractionDigits = 3;

    io:println(555.545.round(1));                     // 555.5
    io:println(555.545.round(2));                     // 555.54
    io:println(floats:round(x));                      // 556.0
    io:println(floats:round(x, fractionDigits = 0));  // 556.0
    io:println(floats:round(x, 1));                   // 555.5
    io:println(y.round(2));                           // 5.56
    io:println(y.round(fractionDigits));              // 5.556
}
```

> Revamped `lang.decimal:round` langlib function

Author: ```suggestion
##### Revamped `lang.decimal:round` langlib function
```

> ##### `lang.decimal:round` method signature is improved

Author: ```suggestion
Revamped `lang.decimal:round` langlib function
```

#### New Features

> ##### Spread Operator Support for List Constructor

Author: ```suggestion
##### The `spread` operator support for `list` constructor
```

> The spread operator support for the list constructor expression has been introduced.

Author: ```suggestion
Introduced the `spread` operator support for the `list` constructor expression
```

> If the list member with spread operator is ...x, then the static type of x is expected to be a list. i.e. static type of x is expected to be a subtype of [(any|error)...]. All the member values of the list that results from evaluating x are included in the list value being constructed.

Author: ```suggestion
If the list member with the `spread` operator is `...x`, then, the static type of `x` is expected to be a list (i.e., the static type of `x` is expected to be a subtype of `[(any|error)...]`. All the member values of the list that results from evaluating `x` are included in the list value being constructed.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function fn() {
    int[] a1 = [3, 4];
    int[] v1 = [1, 2, ... a1];
    io:println(v1); // value of v1 will be [1, 2, 3, 4]

    int[2] a2 = [6, 7];
    int[] v2 = [1, 2, ... a1, 5, ... a2];
    io:println(v2); // value of v2 will be  [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]

    [int, string] t1 = [5, "s"];
    any[] v3 = [ ... t1, "x"];
    io:println(v3); // value of v3 will be  [5, "s", "x"]

    [boolean, int...] t2 = [false, 4, 7];
    [string, int, string, boolean, int...] v4 = ["x", ... t1, ... t2];
    io:println(v4); // value of v4 will be  ["x", 5, "s", false, 4, 7];

    var v5 = [4, ... t1, ... a2];
    io:println(v5); // value of v5 will be [4, 5, "s", 6, 7];
}
```

> The spread operator with a varying-length list is not allowed if the inherent type of the list being constructed has required members that are not guaranteed to have a value.

Author: ```suggestion
The `spread` operator with a varying-length list is not allowed if the inherent type of the list being constructed with required members that are not guaranteed to have a value.
```

```ballerina
public function fn() {
    [int, string...] t1 = [5, "s"];
    [int, string, string...] v1 = [ ... t1]; // results in an error as second tuple member is not guaranteed to have a value

    [int, boolean, string, int...] t2 = [5, false, "w"];
    [int, boolean, anydata...] v2 = [ ... t2, "x", "y"]; // works as all fixed tuple members are guaranteed to have values
}
```

> ##### Allow int*float, float*int, int* decimal, decimal*int, float/int, decimal/int, float%int and decimal%int.

Author: @rdulmina

> Multiplicative expression is now allowed with `int`, `float` and `int`, `decimal` operands.  The resulting type of expression will be the fractional type.

Author: ```suggestion
Multiplicative expression is now allowed with `int`, `float` and `int`, and `decimal` operands.  The resulting type of the expression will be the fractional type.
```

> With this, we have allowed

Author: ```suggestion
This allows the below.
```

> For multiplication we support both `int*float` and `float*int` similarly for `decimal*float` and `decimal*int`.

Author: yes

> For multiplication we support both `int*float` and `float*int` similarly for `decimal*float` and `decimal*int`.

Author: ```suggestion
Multiplication supports both `int*float` and ``float*int` similar to `int*decimal` and `decimal*int`.
```

> For division and modulo, only the floating-point operand as the dividend is supported ie: `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, `decimal%int` are supported.

Author: ```suggestion
For division and modulo, only the `floating-point` operand as the dividend is supported (i.e., `float/int`, `decimal/int`, `float%int`, and `decimal%int` are supported.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

> public function main() {

Author: @rdulmina

    int a = 5;
    float b = 2.5;
    decimal c = 1.25;

    float e = a * b;
    io:println(e); // 12.5
    float f = b * a;
    io:println(f); // 12.5

    decimal g = a * c;
    io:println(g); // 6.250
    decimal h = c * a;
    io:println(h); // 6.250

    float j = b / a;
    io:println(j); // 0.5
    decimal k = c / a;
    io:println(k); // 0.25

    float m = b % a;
    io:println(m); // 2.5
    decimal n = c % a;
    io:println(n); // 1.25
}
```

##### New lang library functions

> ###### New `lang.array:some()` and `lang.array:every()` functions

Author: @KavinduZoysa

The function `some()` tests whether a function returns true for some member of an array. The function `every` tests whether a function returns true for every member of an array. 

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

function func1(int i) returns boolean {
    return i > 2;
}

public function fn() {
    io:println([1, 3].some(func1)); // true
    io:println([1, -3].some(func1)); // false
    io:println([5, 3].every(func1)); // true
    io:println([1, 3].every(func1)); // false
}
```
###### New `lang.decimal:quantize()` function

> `quantize()` function has been introduced to control the precision of decimal values which returns a value equal to the first operand after rounding and having the exponent of the second operand.

Author: ```suggestion
The `quantize()` function has been introduced to control the precision of decimal values, which returns a value equal to the first operand after rounding and having the exponent of the second operand.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    io:println(decimal:quantize(123.123, 1.0)); // 123.1
    io:println(decimal:quantize(123.123, 1.00)); // 123.12
    io:println(decimal:quantize(123.123, 1.000)); // 123.123
}
```
If the length of the coefficient after the quantize operation would be greater than precision, then an `InvalidOperation` is signaled.

> ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```ballerina
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    string a = float:toFixedString(5.7, 16); 
    io:println(a); // 5.7000000000000002
    string b = float:toFixedString(5.7, 2); 
    io:println(b); // 5.70
    
    float f1 = -45362.12334;
    string c = float:toExpString(f1, 16); 
    io:println(c); // -4.5362123339999998e+4
    string d = float:toExpString(f1, 2); 
    io:println(d); // -4.54e+4
}
```

###### New `lang.string:padStart()`, `lang.string:padEnd()`, and `lang.string:padZero()` functions

`padStart()`, `padEnd()`, and `padZero()` functions have been introduced to add padding in strings. `padStart` adds padding to the start of a string. `padEnd` adds padding to the end of a string. `padZero` pads a string with zeros.

```ballerina
public function main() {
    io:println("abc".padStart(5, "#")); // "##abc"
    io:println("abc".padStart(5)); // "  abc"

    io:println("abc".padEnd(5, "#")); // "abc##"
    io:println("abc".padEnd(5)); // "abc  "

    io:println("123".padZero(5)); // "00123"
    io:println("123".padZero(5, "#")); // "##123"
}
```

#### Improvements

> ##### Disallow inferring array sizes from contexts that are not permitted

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Disallow inferring array length in contexts that are not permitted
```

> Inferring array length from the context is restricted to support only with list constructors. Further, only the first dimension can be inferred from the context in multidimensional arrays.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Inferring array length has been restricted to list constructors in variable and constant declarations. Moreover, only the first dimension can be inferred in multidimensional arrays.
```

```ballerina
int[*] x1 = [1, 2]; // Supported.

int[2] y = [1, 2];

> int[*] x2 = y; // Not supported. Required a list constructor to infer            the array length.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
int[*] x2 = y; // Not supported. Requires a list constructor to infer the array length.
```

int[*][2] x3 = [[1, 2], [1, 2]]; // Supported.

> int[*][*] x4 = [[1, 2], [1, 2]]; // Not supported. Only the first dimension can be inferred from the context.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
int[*][*] x4 = [[1, 2], [1, 2]]; // Not supported. Only the first dimension can be inferred.
```

```

##### Add annotation attachments to the BIR

> ##### Revamp round langlib function for float

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Revamped `lang.float:round` langlib function
```

> The method signature is changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, where the user can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the method rounds to an integer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The function signature has been changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, where the user can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {

>     io:println(555.545.round(2)); // 555.54

Author: @KavinduZoysa  @KRVPerera  Shall we change this also like the decimal example?

Reviewer 7: I am sending a PR to change both 
https://github.com/gimantha/ballerina-release/pull/2

@KavinduZoysa

    io:println(555.545.round(3)); // 555.545
    io:println(555.545.round(4)); // 555.545
}
```

> ##### `lang.decimal:round` method signature is improved

Reviewer 3: Inconsistent with previous titles.

> The method signature is changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, where the user can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the method rounds to an integer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The function signature has been changed to have an extra argument `fractionDigits`, where the user can choose the number of fraction digits of the rounded result. When `fractionDigits` is zero, the function rounds to an integer.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;
import ballerina/lang.'decimal as decimals;

public function main() {
    io:println(5.55.round(1));	// 5.6
    decimal x = 5.55;
    io:println(decimals:round(x));	// 6
    io:println(decimals:round(5.55, fractionDigits = 0));	// 6
    io:println(decimals:round(5.5565, fractionDigits = 3));	// 5.556

> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    io:println(5.55.round(1)); // 5.6
    decimal x = 5.55;
    io:println(decimal:round(x)); // 6
    io:println(decimal:round(5.55, fractionDigits = 0)); // 6
    io:println(decimal:round(5.5565, fractionDigits = 3)); // 5.556
}
```

Our examples should follow the ideal way to do stuff. :)

```

> ##### An unreachable panic statement now does not result in a compilation error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### An unreachable panic statement no longer results in a compilation error
```

```ballerina
function fn() returns string {
    int|string a = 10;

    if a is int {
        return "INT";
    } else {
        return "STRING";
    }

    panic error("Not Reached!"); // unreachable, but not an error.
}
```

> 

Reviewer 7: We need to add `error:Cloneable` changes
https://github.com/gimantha/ballerina-release/pull/1

#### Bug Fixes

> ##### Invalid subtype relation in table and anydata

Reviewer 3: This section seems to be using both headings and bullet points. We usually use bullet points since we don't need titles for these.

Author: fixed

> Fix subtype relation between table and anydata

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fixed the subtype relation between table and anydata
```

> ##### Invalid subtype relation in table and anydata
> Fixed the subtype relation between table and anydata

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- An invalid sub-typing relationship between `table` and `anydata` has been fixed.
```

```ballerina

> type TANY table<map<any>>;
> 
> public function main() {
>     TANY tany = table [{"a": 2}];
>     anydata _ = tany; // This is a compile error
> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
public function main() {
    table<map<any>> tany = table [{"a": 2}];
    anydata ad = tany; // Results in a compilation error.
}
```

```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ##### Fix Invalid value space when a union of singletons contains the null literal
> The value of null literal should be set as `null`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A union containing the `null` literal allowing `"null"` as a valid value has been fixed.
```

```ballerina

> type Foo boolean|null;
> 
> public function main() {
>     Foo _ = "null"; // compilation error
>     boolean|null _ = "null"; // compilation error
> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
type Foo boolean|null;

public function main() {
    Foo a = "null"; // compilation error
    "string"|null b = "null"; // compilation error
}
```

```

##### Fix issue in enum member value when member name is a quoted identifier

> Fix quote is included in enum member value when member name is a quoted identifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fixed the quote is included in enum member value when member name is a quoted identifier.
```

> ##### Fix issue in enum member value when member name is a quoted identifier
> 
> Fixed the quote is included in enum member value when member name is a quoted identifier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- An issue that caused the value of enum members defined with quoted identifiers to include the quote has been fixed.
```

```ballerina

> import ballerina/io;
> 
> public enum MyEnum {
>     'new
> }
> 
> public function main() {
>     io:println('new); // Previously prints `'new` now prints `new`
> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import ballerina/io;

public enum Status {
    'new,
    old
}
public function main() {
    io:println('new); // Previously printed `'new`, now prints `new`.
}
```

```

> ##### Fix few issues related match pattern parsing
> 
> - No syntax error when there is an extra comma inside mapping match pattern has been fixed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A compilation error is now logged when there is an extra comma inside a mapping match pattern.
```

```ballerina
type MyRecord record {
    int field1;
    int field2;
};

function fn(MyRecord r1) {
    match r1 {

>         {field1: 0} => { // A syntax error is now given for the comma.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        {field1: 0,} => { // A syntax error is now given for the comma.
```

        }
    }
}
```

> - An issue parsing qualified identifier with predeclared prefix as const match pattern has been fixed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- An issue in the parser that disallowed qualified identifiers with a pre-declared prefix as a const match pattern has been fixed.
```

```ballerina
function fn(any x) {
    match x {
        int:MAX_VALUE => { // Match pattern is now allowed
        }

        [int:MAX_VALUE, int:MIN_VALUE] => { // Match pattern is now allowed
        }
    }
}
```

> - Qualified identifiers being not allowed in error match pattern has been fixed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Qualified identifiers not being allowed in error match patterns has been fixed.
```

```ballerina
function fn(error e) {
    match e {

>         error(myError:MSG_1) => { // Match pattern is now allowed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        error(errors:MESSAGE) => { // Match pattern is now allowed
```

        }
    }
}
```

##### Fix compiler crashing when a query expression that throws an error is enclosed within a statement with on-fail. 

```ballerina
function verifyCheck() returns error? {
    return error("custom error");
}

public function main() {
    do {
        _ = from int v in 1 ... 3
            select check verifyCheck();
    } on fail error err {
        io:println("error caught", err);
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: We usually only add breaking changes here. Any reason to include non-breaking changes here? We shouldn't unnecessarily lengthen the release note.

Author: removed

> ##### The inherent type for any arr = [1]; should be (any|error)[]
> 
> For any arr = []; Earlier, the inherent type is any[] but it is now corrected to be (any|error)[]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The inherent type of a list constructed using a list constructor with `any` as the contextually-expected type has been fixed to be `(any|error)[]` instead of `any[]`.
```

```ballerina
public function main() {
    any x = [1, 3, 4];
    if x is (any|error)[] {

>         x.push(error("error..")); // Now this is allowed, earlier it failed in runtime

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        x.push(error("invalid!")); // Now allowed, previously failed at runtime.
```

    }
}
```

> ##### Disallow additive expression  with operands that contain a union of basic types
> 
> Fixed a spec deviation that allowed the operands of additive expression with a union of basic types. This will now result in a compilation error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A bug that allowed additive expressions with operands of types that are union types of different basic types has been fixed.
```

> Fixed a spec deviation that allowed the operands of additive expression with a union of basic types. This will now result in a compilation error.

Author: ```suggestion
- A bug that allowed additive expressions with operands of types that are union types of different basic types has been fixed.
```

```ballerina

> function fn() {
>     int|float a = 4;
>     int|float b = 4.5;
>     // Now, this results in an error.
>     int _ = a + b;
>     int _ = a + a;
> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
public function main() {
    int|float a = 4;
    int|float b = 4.5;

    int _ = a + b; // Now result in a compilation error.
}
```

```

> ##### Allow additive expression with operands of a union type containing builtin subtypes of `string` and `XML`

Reviewer 3: Also not a breaking change.

Author: @chiranSachintha
